[Music]
there is no other species on the planet
that responds as quickly and as
dramatically to the good times as the
desert locust eggs that have remained in
the ground for 20 years begin to hatch
the young locusts are known as hoppers
for at this stage they're flightless
they find new feeding grounds by
following the smell of sprouting grass
normally it takes four weeks for hoppers
to become adults but when the conditions
are right as now their development
switches to the fast track
as the vegetation in one place begins to
run out the winged adults release
pheromones sent messages which tell
others in the group that they must move
on
[Music]
and when groups merge they form a swarm
an adult Lucas eats its entire body
weight every day and a whole swarm can
consume literally hundreds of tons of
vegetation
they have to keep on moving the swarm
travels with the wind it's the most
energy-saving way of fly
following the flow of wind means that
they're always heading toward areas of
low pressure
places where wind meets rain and
vegetation starts to grow
as they fly swarms join up with other
swarms to form gigantic plagues several
billion strong and as much as forty
miles wide
they will consume every edible thing
that lives in their path
[Music]
this is one of planet Earth's greatest
spectacles it's rarely seen on the scale
and it won't last long once the food has
gone the steady roar of a billion
beating locust wings will once again be
replaced by nothing more than the sound
of the desert wind
[Music]
you